Although they share semantic meaning, the resulting semantic monolith of the DSC must be allowed to differ from the DSP’s semantic monolith. In fact, collaboration is all about sharing data that carry similar semantic meaning but allowing for different pragmatic meaning in order to achieve different results that together fulfils the shared purpose. For example, by exchanging a heartbeat both agents share the semantic meaning about the number of beats per second. However, the pragmatic meaning can vary between an indication of health for a health-care application and an indication of performance potential in a sports application, with different pragmatic demands on semantic meaning, e.g., resolution or accuracy. Additionally, and as identified as \cref{cncrn:semantic-heterogeneity}, semantic meaning can be represented in many different ways. Both aspects bring about a further concern on semantic scalability, since semantics won’t be centrally coordinated anymore resulting in semantic definitions that are distributed all over the place (see \cref{dp:shp}). 

In our pursuit to formulate this scalability concern, we first provide for a definition that draws from the classical formulations on system scalability [@Bondi2000;@Steed2010;@Shivakumar2015]. In its classical interpretation, scalability is about increasing quantity while maintaining the quality of the system, in terms of performance, functionality or efficiency as perceived by the end users. In the same spirit, we address semantic scalability also in terms of quantity, where the number of perspectives on reality have the most impact on semantic diversity and representational variety, more than stakeholders alone. Furthermore, we formulate the quality to maintain not in terms of interoperability itself, but the effort that is required to consolidate sIOP between those many perspectives, notably since this addresses the main feature that sIOP is to support: business agility. This results in the following definition: 

\begin{mmdef}[Semantic scalability]\label{def:semantic-scalability}
Semantic scalability is the capability of a system of collaborating software agents to adopt and/or consolidate, with acceptable lead time and costs, additional perspectives on their shared reality without compromising sIOP between the interacting software agents. 
\end{mmdef}  

